Now let's see how we can define pre-order traversal taking advantage of recursion.
We're going to start out by defining a list called visit order,
and this is what we actually want to return in the end.
We're also going to start traversing the tree from the root.
So from the root then we're going to make
a recursive call to a function that will have yet to define,
traverse, but we're going to start at the root.
So let's see what the traverse recursive function looks like.
It's going to traverse a node and it's going to do three things.
It's going to visit the node,
it's going to traverse left,
and it's going to traverse right. So how do we do that?
So to visit, we just say visit order dot append and that node.
Let's just get the value of a node.
We're also going to traverse left.
So after we visit, we traverse left.
We don't want to just pass a node itself because it's just going to cause a loop.
But instead we're going to get the left child.
Similarly after that, we can check the right child and traverse that.
So there's going to be a few bugs.
Let's see what those errors are.
If we try to run this,
we can see an error that the local variable traverse is referenced before assignment.
So that just means that before we call the function traverse,
we need to define it.
So let's just call this after we define it.
So now there's going to be another error. Let's take a look at that.
We can see that it says NoneType object has no attribute get value.
So what's happening here is that we're probably passing in a none and then we're trying
to get the value and also get the left child, get the right child.
So all we need to check is make sure that this node object is not none.
So if node is not none, that's what this is saying.
If node is something other than none,
then we can go ahead and get the value,
push it onto the stack call the a left get left child and call the get right child.
So how this works too is that notice when you get close to the leaf node,
let's say this parent doesn't actually have a left child.
So this is actually none.
So it's actually calling traverse passing in none.
So it's calling traverse passing in none and that's okay because it's going to check,
it has to be not none and then it can continue traversing.
But otherwise, it doesn't do anything.
It just pops this recursive call off the stack.
So now if we run this,
we can see that we get pre-order traversal,
apple, banana, dates, and cherry.